Questions for Ben:-
1. Is this game format more ambitious?
2. Do two players hve to play at the same time or scores can be collected and stored to be compared in retrospect?
3. How much score will be given to the fun element of the game and how much will be given to the functional element of the game?
4. What will be the main milestone of the game? How much guidance will be given as we have not done this before ;)?

Milestones to be achieved:-
1. The final game format on paper
2. Identify objects in the game that need to be coded - e.g. characters/Recyclers, landfill elements (tiles)- good tiles and bad tiles, digging tool, score meter,score attributes- how will the game be scored- good tile = 1 point and bad tile = -1 point etc?
3. Animations needed and associated coding- movements, digging ,theme of the game(Is the enviroment of character going to be dynamic?) - 
4. Coding preferences and formats for the objects identified- distribution of labour :D 
5. Compilation of all elements/objects 
6.
7.Milestones and their status (Done, Ongoing and Pending) based on the coursework checklist (may be we can have a drink after
every milestone achieved :p ...something to work towards.....


Timeline- 8 weeks:-

Week1 :-  Team deatils submitted--- Team Dig.It......Done 
          Organise on GitHub--- Public Dig.It ----Done 
          Define game type --- 2D MMOG Educational game on recycling  
          Readup on HTML and CSS ----- Emma, Rob, Rach & Kuda -- Done
          Plan meeting times --- Twice weekly in person --- Tuesdays and Thursdays -- please agree or suggest 
         
Week2:-   Refine Game play 
          ----------------
          I. Game Name = "Pick It, Rick!" (Based on the new game format this sounds better)
          
          Refine Game Play = 2D MMOG where players score points to enahnce their recycling quotient based on
          their regional recycling knowledge by picking the correct regionally recyclable waste from a conveyer 
          belt of garbage. 
8.
9.II. Game explained in details with client side view and anticipated experience:
        ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 
         Inclusion pointers - 1. Options when player visits the game page aka homepage and bottons to click etc
                                  Start Button, Tutorial Button, recycling info. 
                              2. Player data input - player name (mandetory, default Rick), OTHER: country name (optional), 
                              gender (optional), age (optional).......
                                  
                              3. Levels - 1, 2, 3 - Set in difference backgrounds 1) Home 2) Park 3)Garbage dump.
                              colour of conveyor belt dictated by background.
                              
                              
10.              
                              4. Explain background - e.g. conveyor belt of waste (garbage + recyclable items)
                              
                              5. Speed and amount grabage dumped on the conveyor belt will determine 
                              levels - define speed (distance/time; where time will decrease with inceasing levels); 
                              define amount and ratio (Robjects: Wobjects; e.g. 2/1) of grabage dumped (number of Robjects:
                              recyclabes and Wobjects: waste). 
                                        2 stages - 1 define by Speed for now
                                                   2 speed and extra items
                              
                              6. Define the end of the game-- Time 3 minutes (will means test once built)
                              
                              7. Define movement of the player-- left, right, down ? -- keys that code of these actions
                              
                              8. Define collision of player with object and scoring details ---
                              
                              Options= a. keep it simple but exciting: if player object (Pobject) touches the Robject: 
                              1 point scored and if Pobject touches the Wobject: no point or -1 point. This has a pontential
                              to create some excitment as the player will have to avoid the Wobjects- making the game more 
                              dynamic.
                                                            
                              Option =b. give player the option to pickup Robject or Wobject by defining appropriate keys for 
                              each upon collision for reward (point) if collected in a correct manner. If collected in an 
                              incorrect manner, the player either doesnt score or scores -1 point- define this definatively.
                              This version of game reflects day-to-day life and hence is much for educational. 
                              
                              option = c when player object (Pobject) interacts with Robject, they have 2 options; pick up or avoid. 
                              Player can pickup both Gobjects and Robjects, with differing scores 3 for recycling, 1 for garbage.
                              Players choose with W and R (optional - if they ignore object, they get minus scores). 
                              
                               9. End of the game display--- 
                                         (i) Option to go to next level (level 1; 20, level 2 ; 50, level 3 ; 120).   
                                         (ii) Present score in location, if no location present moon as location.  
                                         (iii) Cumulative scores of previous tries --- enhances learning experience 
                                         (iv) Optional - release their score to public - for buddy battle 
                                         (v) Essential for educational purpose-- list of ignored  or flasely picked items 
                                         (based on the scoring format selected) with information on their recycling
                                         OR little snipits ("Did you know...........") of recycling facts (for app based 
                                         game this is where adds can come in as well -- adds of pro-recycling companies or 
                                         products)
                                         
                                         Define the End is details w.r.t. databases- perm or temp. 
                                                        
                      
           III. Objects of the game:
                --------------------
                Character = examples = 
                Recycling symbols for plastic = examples = 
                Recycling object images = example = glass, cardboard, shoes, clothes..................
                Waste images = examples = 
         
             Deplying the objects in game:
             1. Character = Options = new, classic, pre-made, 2D image 
             2. Recycling symbols for plastic = options= google images, photos from phone ;)
             3. Recycling object images = options = photos, google images, cartoons 
             4. Waste images = options = photos, google images, cartoons
         
            Any objects require coding to create?     

